# 1. Linked Lists

## 2. Doubly Linked Lists

### Doubly Linked Lists
The main difference as the name implies is that we have two(double) pointers. We have one pointer for the next node the same for singly linked lists, but we also have previous pointer which is going to point at the previous node in the linked list.    

>The next pointers are gonna be connected to the next nodes in the linked list. The previous pointers are going to be connected to the previous nodes in the linked list. Now the first node does not have any previous pointers so it's going to be set to null we can assume the same way how the last node has the next pointer set to null.  That's how we know we get to the end of the list and this is how we know we've gotten to the beginning of the list.   

Now just like with singly linked list, let's assume that we have a head and a tail pointer for the first and the last node of our linked list.    

1) Let's say we wanted to add a new node to the end of the linked list. We will take the next pointer of our current tail node and assign it to the list node 4. We would also want to set the previous pointer of this node to be at list node 3. We would also want to set the previous pointer to point at list node 3. And then we will take our tail and shift if to the new node that we just inserted. 

> tail.next = ListNode4   
ListNode4.prev = tail    
tail = tail.next    

2) So now look at removing a node. Let's remove the last node of our list and it will be easier with the double linked list because we're allowed to look backward. Assuming we only have a pointer to the tail, that's actually all we need. We don't need a pointer to the previous node because from our tail, we can follow the previous pointer and it can take us to the previous node. With the singly linked list, we would have had to start at the beginning and then kept going forward until we got to the node that we wanted to be at. We would start at the tail follow the previous pointer we would be at list 2. We would take the next pointer of it which is now pointing at list node 3 and we would instead pointed at null. 

> node2 = tail.prev    
node2.next = null    
tail = node2   

Regardless of the size of the linked list, this delete operation is always going to be the same, a constant time operation O(1). 

We can insert a value at the end and remove a value at the end so we can do both of those in constant time. That satisfies the requirement of Stack data structure. Stacks can be implemented with the linked list just like they can be with Arrays.

But to access a random element of the linked list would be an O of n time operation. So probably better to use Dynamic Array if we're talking about Stacks because we get extra functionality that we lose when we use Linked Lists.

So while doing the insertion or removal is efficient usually we have to iterate through the linked list before we can do that so most cases it's gonna be linear time operation O(1).

So we can see that linked list do have a slight benefit compared to arrays but honestly arrays are much more common and useful. 