# 2. Linked Lists

## 3. Queue

### Queues
Queues are another important data structures similar to stacks. The difference is queues follows FIFO which means First In First Out. They support two operations typically Enqueue and Dequeue. But different from a stack, when we enqueue elements it's the same as pushing so in this case it's acutally similar to a stack. We push elements to the end of the queue. That's called enqueuing. Now dequeueing is removing a value but instead of removing from the end, we're actually going to remove from the beginning. That's why it's First In First Out. The first element that we add is going to be the first element that we remove. Elements are gonna be removed in the same order that they were added to the queue.   

We know we couldn't do those operations with arrays because if you remove from the begining of the array, than you have to take every other element and shift it over and that turned out to be a big O of n time operation. But With linked list, we can achieve this.  

> Suppose initially we have an empty queue. So we have a current pointer which is initially set to null it has nothing. Then we add a value to our queue, we create a list node and then our current pointer is gonna be set to that list node. Now we have one element in our queue. By the way with this linked list, we will be maintaining a head and a tail pointer which both are initially gonna be at this node as of now. But we want to add another value to our queue, so we add another in this case blue to our queue. It's as simple as taking the next pointer of this node and setting it to the new node that we're inserting. At this point our head pointer will be pointing at the first element and the tail pointer will be pointing at that.   

>Now it's time to do the other operation which is dequeue = remove from the head of the list. It's as easy as taking our current pointer and setting it to be current dot next.    

That's how we can do in constant time. Technically it's possible to implement queue with arrays but it can get a lot more complicated. It's more simple to implement them with linked lists.