# 2. Static Arrays

## Array
Contiguous blocks of data.   
The two most comomon operations are reading to the data or writing to the data.   

> 1) Reading the data   
Let's say we allocated it by calling it myarray, we don't need to know the exact address of every single value.    
Instead, we use indexes to access values.   
Since we can automatically map any index in our array to a location in memory, that means we can instantly read any value as long as we have the index for it.   
To represent that that's an efficient operation, we call it Big O of 1 O(1). = What this means is that in the worst case, to read a value assuming we have the index. So suppose we want to read the value at index 2, it's an instant operation.(It happens in constant time) When we access to array by index in an iterator we increment i to be one, two and we keep doing that until it equaled the length of the array.

> 2) Writing the data   
Important properties of arrays, which is that there of fixed size.   
Static Arrays basically means they're fixed size arrays.   
So suppose we allocated an array of size 3, initially it's empty, but there has to be something stored here. And usually by default languages will initialize it to be all zeros or sometimes they won't initialize at all or sometimes there can just be random values here. We're allowed to remove values but when we say remove we can't actually deallocate that with a static array.   
When we say remove a value, we're basically saying we're gonna overwrite it by putting zero in that case. What we can do is add a new value.    
By the way, as we add a new value to the end of the array at the next empty spot that we're keeping track of, it's also going to be instant operation.

> 3) removing the data   
Similarly removing a value is also as efficient as Big O of one.   
It's a constant time operation because what we're really doing is just going to that position of memory and exiting it out.   And same, we're not actually deleting it but we're overwriting it.   


Let's say we wanted to arbitrarily insert a value into the middle of the array at any position in the middle of the array. By that I mean any position in between these values at the end of these values or of the beginning.   
We know inserting at the end is always efficient, because we're inserting into an empty spot.   

But inserting at any arbitrary position like the middle or at the beginning is not gonna be efficient.   

It's easy enough and efficient to overwrite the value because that's O(1) but we cant't because that doesn't achieve what we want.    

So for us to insert where we exactly want, we first have to shift the original value to the next position from the last element. = Only after we've  performed this shifting are we allowed to put the number to where we want and we presevrved the order of the values.   

The downside of this is we couldn't do it in a single operation. We have to move every value in the array. -> O(n)   

And same thing happens when we remove the actual values + locations.
