# 3. Dynamic Arrays

## Dynamic Array
What if we have an array that is dynamic.   
When we were creating static arrays, we usually had to specify the size. But in this case, we don't initialise any of the values and we don't necessarily have to specify the size. Usually it initialises it to some default size.   

Now as we add elements to the end of the array, we call that pushing to the array. We can also pop values. Those two operations are both a big O of one time operation O(1) because both happen at the end of the array.   

When we ran out of space. We're gonna allocate a brand new array that will be able to contain all of the elements we're trying to store because we can't just allocate memory right next to it as we talked about it previously.   

So what would have been sufficient to just have an array of size 4. So why did I double it? We take all of the original values stored in the array and copy them into the second array starting at the beginning.   

Now our memory looks correct. We still have original array and we don't need this array. It's just taking up space but we have all the values in the second array anyways. Now at this point we deallocate this = we free this memory -> We basically tell the operating system that we're not using it anymore.   

> So why did we double this rather than just increasing it by one for the space that we needed for the original elemnent?   
Since we allocated a brand new array, we basically did a big O of n O(n) operation (because first allocating the memory itself takes a O(n), regardless of that we also had to take the original values from the original array and move them into the second array O(n)).   
What we notice is if we run out of space, we can still add next value but it takes extra time because we have to create the brand new array and push values in it.   
That's why we create a bigger array, we are doubling the capacity every single time because we're finding a middle ground between not having to allocate a brand new array every single time but also we don't wanna have a bunch of empty space.   
(like 90% of it could have been empty space but that wouldn't have necessarily good because then we're taking up a bunch of memory from our operating system)   

If we do it this way where we double the capacity, we get something called "Amortized Time Complexity". What that basically means is that it took O(n) to add an element if we ran out space but we know it's going to be pretty infrequent when we run out of space so we can still say that amortized time complexity of pushing a value to a dynamic array is going to be O(1).
