# 4. Stack

## Stack
There is a common data structure in programming called a stack which typically supports three operations. You can push an element to the end of the stack. You can pop an element from the end of the stack. Or you can look at the last element in the stack meaning in this case we just read the last element without removing it like we would in pop.

> Operation & Big-O Time   
Push - O(1)   
Pop - O(1)
Peek/Top O(1)

So do we need to design a data structure from scratch to be able to implement stack? NO   
-> The dynamic arrays that we talked about earlier actually satisfy all of these requirments. So a stack can be implemented usinga  dynamic array.   

So remember our stack is nothing but an array and we're allowed to push elements so we can push a 1 onto the stack. And if we push two, it's gonna go where the next empty spot is. Even though techincally we don't have space, we know our stack is implemented with a dynamic array so we don't even have to worry about running out of space. We know it's going to end up allocating some more space for us anyways.   

When we pop we can only remove elements from the end of array and we know that's efficient. We wouldn't necessarily delete the position of memory.

Notice how the order that the elements were inserted in is the reverse of the order that the elements are removed in. In othere words, the last element that was added to the stack is going to be the first element that's removed from the stack.   

So stacks are considered a LIFO data structure. That means that the Last In is going to be the First Out.