# 1. System Design for Beginners

## 2. Application Architecture

### Application Architecture
So we're gonna start this from the perspective of a developer. This will be pretty relatble for us. We know that we wirte code which has to get deployed somewhere. And we know that eventually our code has to reach some server where our code is acutally going to run on. Let's assume the server is a computer that handle request meaning that it can serve users. And usually there's kind of an intermediate step before our code can reach to our server. The code has to be built and deployed. That could happen on the devs local machine more commonly. It can happen on some type of CI/CD. Now our server also needs to serve data(database). We assume is not running on the same server, it's connected over network. 

### Vertical scaling
What if we have a lot of users? Maybe CPU is slowing down us here. Or RAM. We can upgrade CPU, RAM, DISK. This is an example of vertical scaling to take a single resource like our server or like our computer and making it better. 

### Horizontal scaling
But computer has limitation no matter how fast our CPU is. We can use different techiinique which is called horizontal scaling. It's to acutally take our server and make copies of it. So we won't just have one server that's running our code, we will actually have multiple servers. The benefit of this is that if we have more users, all of the users don't have to talk to single servers. 

### Load Balancer
The problem of multiple servers is how do we know which server the request goes to. Load Balancer will be able to handle this for us. It's balancing the request. 

Our server is communicating other servers as well. 

### Logging
We will have external services and that external services are going to store our logs for us. 

### Metrics
Logs doens't tell entire stories. We have metrics service and it provides how our server is running (how it running and responding fail or not). 

### Alerts
We have our metrics feed data into an alerting service which will tell us problems on server notifying devs immediately.